[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Carl Jung wrote a thesis
called "Falsification of Type."
And "Falsification
of Type" talks
about the physical
consequences to not
being true to who you are.
And they range everywhere
from emotional discomfort
to full-blown illness-- heart
disease, cancer, diabetes,
arthritis, all kinds of things.
And when you understand how
the subconscious mind works,
you see how that goes.
Because we all have
this absolutely perfect
internal compass.
It's flawless.
And it lets you know whether
you're on your right path
or off emotionally.
So if you're on the right path,
you're happy, you're joyous,
you're content, you're feeling
satisfied, you're energized.
That's your own internal
compass telling you
you're on your path.
When you're angry,
when you're frustrated,
when you're fearful,
that's your compass saying,
you're off your path.
>> When you play the game
by someone else's rules,
you're so off.
And you're sacrificing family.
You're sacrificing
relationships.
You're sacrificing your
relationship with yourself.
You're sacrificing
a relationship
with the natural world,
is a big one for me,
your community, with
your spiritual self.
So often, when you get
stuck in those boxes,
it doesn't allow you to live
your biggest, fullest life.
>> Prosperity is about health.
Prosperity is about
relationships.
Prosperity is about love.
Prosperity is
about spirituality.
It's about all
encompassing areas of life.
You really can't
be truly prosperous
if one area is just
totally lacking
and other areas are taking over.
And that's what happens
for a lot of people
within the system.
They get so financially driven
that everything else suffers.
Their relationship suffers.
Their spirituality suffers.
And then they end
up in a place where
they're in quiet
desperation once again.
And they don't feel what
they really need to feel.
So what do they do?
They either go buy, or
they'll do something
to try to solve that,
or self-medicate.
And that's why there's a
lot of pain in the world.
>> I remember coming home
one day and there was this
commotion on the street.
And it was down in
front of my house.
And then I could see
Renata was in the front.
And she was crying.
She was actually
out on the pavement
and she was arguing
with somebody.
And she had Kathleen
on her arms.
And there were-- the neighbors
had come out, as well.
And the person who
she was arguing with
was a tow truck driver who
had come to tow our car.
So we clearly had gotten
letters which I hadn't even
read saying, you're
on your final payment.
And this guy had come.
And he was-- the car was up.
And I, obviously,
kind of came over.
And I was saying,
no, we can pay it.
I can sort it out.
And he was the wrong
guy to even say that to.
He's like, you know,
here's the chit.
You go phone the number.
But I'm off.
And we pleaded it for a while.
And Renata and I were
in this massive divide,
where she was so upset,
embarrassed, like totally--
like visibly shaken
by the experience.
I was, too.
The tow truck driver left.
The neighbors left.
Renata went back in the house.
And I was there, right on my
own, like on the pavement,
thinking, there's something
wrong with this picture.
Right?
There something wrong with
the way I'm living my life.
>> We all have an
abundance of something.
Many people have an abundance
of things they don't want.
The goal is to discover the
path, the right combination,
so that you have an abundance
of things you do want.
>> You know, the burnout studies
in the late 1970s and early
'80s would find out that
people would burnout in a job.
And so what they do
is they would say,
I can't stand this job.
I don't like this boss.
And they get a different job.
And pretty soon, they'd get
all the same burnout symptoms.
So then they'd say, well,
I'm going to try my own work.
I'm going to work for me, then
I won't have this lousy boss
pushing me around.
Then they'd find
that the same issues.
Because the change has got
to be from the inner change,
not that external change.
>> When I was in my early 20s,
because of working so hard,
I developed something
called ulcerative colitis,
which is having
ulcers in your colon.
And, for those who don't
understand what that means,
if you have bleeding
ulcers in your colon,
you really don't have any
bowel control movement.
Because your colon
swells up and there's
less room for anything
to pass through.
And I ended up with
this disease that
had me taking 25 pills
a day, when I was 22.
I was doing two
cortisone enemas a day.
I was doing a
colonoscopy once a month.
And this happened-- it went
on for about two years.
>> I was always in a state of
severe mental pain, always.
There was not-- unless I was
anesthetizing myself through
some sort of distraction--
food or entertainment.
I was always in pain.
I mean, always in pain.
I always hated it.
And then when-- my body
manifested that pain because,
all of a sudden, I'm in a
body that's 300-400 pounds.
And that's a living
nightmare, you know?
That's a prison, in a sense.
That's the ultimate prison.
Because your body-- you know,
if you're trapped in your body,
if your body doesn't feel
good, you're trapped in a way
that you're not trapped
in any other way.
So it was-- there
was pain in every way
that there could
be pain basically.
>> It's really important in
talking about abundance that we
encompass this area of
understanding the depth
of life, that it
encompasses all areas.
You can't have one lacking
and be truly prosperous.
You really need to work
on all facets of life.
>> As soon as I understood
that I may be, maybe,
at cause of this, I said, well,
what would be a process for me
to put myself in the
state of at ease.
So I started to meditate daily.
I started to visualize daily.
I started to write my
health affirmations.
I started to eat properly.
I started to exercise.
And I started to put myself
in a totally different
energetic space.
I started to really nourish
my body, mind, and spirit.
And, as much as I didn't have
any clue about spirituality
at the time, I read
enough about it
that I believed that there
was some power there.
And maybe I can tap into
this power to help me.
And within five weeks, I had
cured myself of a disease
that I had for two years.
And I was totally,
totally healthy.
I remember having a
colonoscopy done, which, ,
obviously is not very
pleasant, and the doctor says,
what have you done?
I said, well, why?
He says, because
you're totally healed.
And I said, well, I've
been doing meditation.
I've been doing visualization.
I've been eating probably.
I've been exercising.
I've been writing affirmations.
I've been saying these
health affirmations.
He says, well, I've not
seen this type of a reversal
in the stage of a colon
like yours before.
>> One of our
colleagues, Randy Kunkel,
did a bunch of research and
found that people had three
responses to burnout when
they were playing by the rules
and not getting
the abundant life.
Some people would take a
sort of a geographical cure.
They would move to a
different environment.
They'd take a different job.
Or they would start
their own business.
And, of course, the problem
would travel with them.
And they would have
it all over again.
But the vast majority
of people would do
something he called "lock in."
They'd rationalize their
current stuck space
and say, well, you know,
if I'd left this job
I would have to
start over again.
I won't get as much money.
You know, I might
as well stay here.
I've got good benefits.
I'll make my life happy by
doing hobbies or something
outside of work.
And so they never get the
fulfillment that they want.
A small percentage of people
actually made the inner changes
and they're the
ones who blossomed
and didn't have to experience
burnout symptoms any longer.
>> Most people don't
do that though.
Most people ignore
their emotions.
And so what happens is the
subconscious mind goes,
OK, you're ignoring emotions.
So I'll up the
ante a little bit.
And the way it ups the ante is
muscle tension, and headaches,
and just minor things,
minor disturbances.
If you ignore those--
and many people do--
then it ups the ante
a little further,
all in an attempt to get
you on your true path.
That's all this is--
an attempt to get
you on your path.
So it keeps upping the
ante until now you've
got full-blown disease.
Something will stop
you and make you aware.
And if we understand
that disease is often
the subconscious
mind's way of letting
you know you're off your
path and trying really,
really hard to get
you back on, then we
can know what to adjust.
We know where to begin.
We begin with our
belief systems.
>> If somebody is in
a prison right now,
or they feel like
they're in a prison,
if they feel like they're a
victim of their circumstances,
if they feel like they're
a victim of anything
in their lives right
now, first and foremost,
is I would share with
them, don't blame yourself.
Don't be ashamed.
Don't feel guilty.
>> The first place most
people go is, it's me.
I have a problem.
The second place they go
is, well, wait a minute.
There's something more.
There's a lot of
people in this boat.
There are a lot of people who
are feeling what I'm feeling.
There are a lot of
people who are lost.
There are a lot of people--
and there is an
increase in medication.
There is an increase in illness.
All kinds of
illnesses, everything
from diabetes to cancer, there's
an increase in everything.
Medication being
dispensed like candy.
You know, something's
wrong with the system.
And it's that backing up
and looking beyond yourself
and going, wait a minute.
It isn't just me.
It's a lot of people.
I share this dilemma
with a lot of people.
There's something
wrong with the system.
And when we can
look systemically
instead of personally, now
we can step back and say, OK,
since it isn't me,
since I'm not broken,
now I can start
looking for answers.
We don't look for answers
if we believe it's us.
We look for answers if we
believe it's the system.
>> I had a kind of a life
changing experience back
in 2001.
I was almost on one
of the planes that
was hijacked on 9/11.
Flight 93, United
Airlines flight 93.
And I was supposed
to be on that flight.
And I wasn't, by
just a fluke of fate.
I was supposed to
go to San Francisco
to meet with a large
brokerage company
to talk about selling
my brokerage company.
And it was supposed
to be the meeting
that, if I had sold
my brokerage company,
I would have all the
money that I'd ever
needed for the rest of my life.
It was that kind
of thing, right?
And I was supposed to
fly on September 11
to San Francisco from New York.
And, anytime I ever flew from
New York to San Francisco,
I always flew out of Newark
because I lived in New Jersey.
And there's only
two direct flights
that go from Newark
to San Francisco.
And those are the
United Airlines flights.
One's in the afternoon and it
doesn't get until 12 o'clock
at night.
And the other's the morning one.
So the only flight I ever took
when I went to San Francisco--
and I went fairly frequently--
was the United Airlines flight
from Newark to San
Francisco in the morning.
And I happened to have been
away when the flight was booked.
I was out at a seminar,
a weight loss seminar.
And I asked my business
partner to book the flight.
And he found a cheaper
flight out of LaGuardia that
connected through Cincinnati.
And here's the thing.
So we saved $150 on
the flight, right?
But it meant that I had
to drive through New York
into LaGuardia, it would
cost me $300 more in parking,
plus I had to stop
over in Cincinnati
for an hour and a half.
And we were saving $150.
It was the only time in my life
I've ever been mad at this guy
because he's sort of like my
guardian angel, this person.
It's the only time
I've ever been mad
at him in my entire life
was to buy this flight that
made no sense whatsoever.
And he ended up saving my life.
Because if I had
booked the flight,
I would have booked that
United Airlines flight.
>> When I have enough money
to do this, then I'll be free.
When I get enough time
off from this and this,
then I'll be able to
do what I really enjoy.
That's total hogwash.
That only gets worse
and worse and worse.
People bury themselves
worse and worse and worse.
And that burying itself,
the illnesses, I believe,
are a symptom of our
soul going, uh uh.
I'm going to break you down.
I'm not going to let you
go down someone else's
path of fulfillment.
I'm not going to let you
pursue this longer and longer.
I'm going to give you symptoms.
I'm going to give you
signs for you to slow down,
to recalibrate, to
get away from it all,
to listen to what's
true for you.
So, for me, diseases, illness,
stress, muscular tension,
headaches, are aspects of
our very own self aiming
to talk to us in a non-verbal
way to give us wisdom
that we are off plan.
We are off our soul
and mind's unity.
>> I used to live in scarcity.
I know what that was like.
I'm not going back there.
You can invite me all you want.
I don't want to live there.
It's not a fun place to live.
>> That was a huge
turning point for me.
Because I felt like,
here I am killing myself
and living for this
someday, and now I'm
living on borrowed time.
The universe just gave
me a second chance.
And I decided that
I was not going
to live for someday anymore.
I was going to live for today.
And I was going to do in
each day exactly what I
wanted to do, what fulfilled
me, not so that someday I'd
be happy.
I was going to live
for today, right now.
>> Your thought is what creates
your experience of reality.
If you're thinking
negative things,
or limiting things, or scarcity
things, or looking at the lack,
that's the life you're
going to experience.
And that's just the
way it works, period.
>> I sold my business.
I moved to a small town
in Western Australia.
I bought a small property.
And I started growing my own
food, and living off the land,
and just basically
meditating, and visualizing,
and taking care of my health.
>> That was the
turning point for me.
It was that real kind of like
deep experience of scarcity
at an emotional
level, where you say,
I never want to be in
this position again.
And when you have that
and it's strong enough
that you say, never
again, you clearly
need to change the way
you're doing things,
because those things
which keep you in fear
or keep you chasing,
no longer-- and when
you do that, the liberation that
comes out of it is incredible.
>> Can I bring myself to
thinking, and feeling,
and believing, and doing
something a little bit
differently?
The answer is everybody can.
And so we start with
what you can do.
And we start with what
I call micro yeses.
Micro commitments to change.
And in making a micro
commitment to change, then what
you're making a decision to--
or decision for-- is
a different future
than your present reality is.
And everybody is
capable of doing that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]